# Extreme Ownership

These notes are not directly numbered by chapter, but are in order of me reading the book.

1. Accept responsibility for outcomes
2. Right decisions that lead to the wrong outcome are wrong decisions
3. Don't be the struggling genius -- if you know what's best you have to lead your team to those effective decisions instead of blaming others for dumb decisions
4. Check your ego -- getting defensive never helps, figure how you failed and acknowledge that to your team
5. Everyone needs to know the mission -- keep it simple, critical to keep instructions/commands/communications simple
6. Prioritize and execute -- step back from the situation, assess options, and take things out one at a time. Trying to take on too much we once is likely to fail. Focusing effort allows building of momentum and repeated success.
7. Decentralized command -- without ability to make decisions it's difficult to impossible to effectively commit to and execute tasks as planned, especially when things start to go sideways. Having clear leadership and knowing who is in charge and not being in charge of too many people is critical for teams to have the ideal level of clarity and ability to execute the mission regardless of what changes in the day to day operations.
8. Planning -- it's critical to have a clear and well communicated plan. Without a clear plan failure should be expected. After every project evaluate the effectiveness of the plan, the standard operating procedures, and do a debrief of how things could have gone better.
8. Managing down the chain of command -- everything is about clarity of mission, team needs to know the strategic goals and why so they can effectively carry out tactical operations to achieve
9. Managing up the chain of command -- refuse to give in to frustration and BS, instead understand the more and better information you can provide up the more likely you will gain trust and approval for your operations. Focus on being a single team so you can concentrate on the real challenges at hand instead of the frustrations and annoyances of day to day work. If you feel leadership up isn't doing what is necessary, step up and provide that communication with support and ideas rather than stalling. Take ownership of the work instead of blaming on others. Assume your bosses want you to be successful and when they don't give you leeway or support it's because you haven't communicated well enough. Take action and tell them what you are going to do. If they have questions it's because you weren't clear enough. If you need help, make that clear and why it's critical to success. It's necessary to lead up in order to ensure your tactical decisions are trusted and understood, and to receive help and support in carrying out those tasks 
10. Dealing with uncertainty -- take a step back, assess what you do know, evaluate the options and hand and their consequences, make a decision. There's often no right decision. Often we have to settle for the best bad option. The decision to wait is available, but needs to be weighed against the decision to act. More information may be necessary, but may never come. Accept that uncertainty is part of life and focus on making the best decision you can with available information.
11. Discipline enables creativity & freedom -- having good standard operating procedures makes it easier to adapt and act when things get hard or go wrong. Sometimes the leader isn't the best person to come up with a plan for an operation. If the team has good procedures in place, it should be straightforward for anyone on the team to submit a plan.
12. Dichotomy of leadership
